# S3DF Business Model

## Rules of Engagement

### Storage

Each group can contribute to /sdf/data and /sdf/scratch by funding the
acquisition of flash-based and spindle-based storage. We will procure,
install, and configure your newly acquired hardware and we will
integrate it with the existing infrastructure. We will maintain the
hardware for at least 5 years from the acquisition and we will cover
the file system licensing costs.

In addition, S3DF will provide high speed, flash-based systems for
/sdf/{home, sw, group} and provide the relative backups. See the
[storage section](data-and-storage.md) for a description of the
different S3DF file systems.

### Compute

Each group can contribute hardware to the interactive pools and to
SLURM. The hardware for the interactive pools is dedicated to the
group.  Contributions to the SLURM batch system will grant the funding
group a number of computing hours corresponding to the hardware they
buy for up to 5 years. For this approach to work, we will deploy a
banking mechanism that keeps track of the number of hours each group
spends on each SLURM partition.

In addition, S3DF will provide some number of hours on several of the
SLURM partitions to all groups, independently of their contributions.
Talk with us if you need SLAC-funded hours for your group.

As for the interactive pools, contributing groups can purchase
dedicated resources for long running services and for the real-time
and fast-feedback stages.


## Overhead

All contributions will fund the actual hardware plus 15% overhead for
spares, installation and infrastructure costs. The S3DF team decides
how to spend the overhead. The overhead is not due for large
deployments which include the entire infrastructure, including spares,
installation labor, racks, cables, and network devices.

